Aggressive. As a bonus action, the orc can move up to its speed toward a hostile creature that it can see.

Ambusher. In the first round of a combat, the doppelganger has advantage on attack rolls against any creature it surprised.

Amorphous. The pudding can move through a space as narrow as 1 inch wide without squeezing.

Amphibious. The kuo-toa can breathe air and water.

Angelic Weapons. The deva's weapon attacks are magical. When the deva hits with any weapon, the weapon deals an extra 4d8 radiant damage (included in the attack). (note, the dammage here is particular to this monster and must change for the appropriater target cr)

Antimagic Susceptibility. The sword is incapacitated while in the area of an antimagic field. If targeted by dispel magic, the sword must succeed on a Constitution saving throw against the caster's spell save DC or fall unconscious for 1 minute.

Avoidance. If the demilich is subjected to an effect that allows it to make a saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw, and only half damage if it fails.

Blind Senses. The grimlock can't use its blindsight while deafened and unable to smell.

Blood Frenzy. The sahuagin has advantage on melee attack rolls against any creature that doesn't have all its hit points.

(X) Breath (Recharge 5–6). The dragon exhales acid in a 90-foot line that is 10 feet wide. Each creature in that line must make a DC 22 Dexterity saving throw, taking 67 (15d8) acid damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. (note, the dammage here is particular to this monster and must change for the appropriater target cr)

Brute. A melee weapon deals one extra die of its damage when the bugbear hits with it (included in the attack).

Chameleon Skin. The troglodyte has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide.

Change Shape. The dragon magically polymorphs into a humanoid or beast that has a challenge rating no higher than its own, or back into its true form. It reverts to its true form if it dies. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying is absorbed or borne by the new form (the dragon's choice).
In a new form, the dragon retains its alignment, hit points, Hit Dice, ability to speak, proficiencies, Legendary Resistance, lair actions, and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores, as well as this action. Its statistics and capabilities are otherwise replaced by those of the new form, except any class features or legendary actions of that form.

Charge. If the centaur moves at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a pike attack on the same turn, the target takes an extra 10 (3d6) piercing damage. (note, the dammage here is particular to this monster and must change for the appropriater target cr)

Charm. The vampire targets one humanoid it can see within 30 feet of it. If the target can see the vampire, the target must succeed on a DC 17 Wisdom saving throw against this magic or be charmed by the vampire. The charmed target regards the vampire as a trusted friend to be heeded and protected. Although the target isn't under the vampire's control, it takes the vampire's requests or actions in the most favorable way it can, and it is a willing target for the vampire's bite attack.
Each time the vampire or the vampire's companions do anything harmful to the target, it can repeat the saving throw, ending the effect on itself on a success. Otherwise, the effect lasts 24 hours or until the vampire is destroyed, is on a different plane of existence than the target, or takes a bonus action to end the effect.

Constrict. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 6 (1d8 + 2) bludgeoning damage, and the target is grappled (escape DC 14). Until this grapple ends, the creature is restrained, and the snake can't constrict another target.

Damage Absorption. Immunities Lightning, Poison; Bludgeoning, Piercing, and Slashing from nonmagical attacks that aren't adamantine;

Damage Transfer. While attached to a creature, the cloaker takes only half the damage dealt to it (rounded down). and that creature takes the other half.

Death Burst. When the magmin dies, it explodes in a burst of fire and magma. Each creature within 10 feet of it must make a DC 11 Dexterity saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. Flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried in that area are ignited.

Devil's Sight. Magical darkness doesn't impede the devil's darkvision.

Dive Attack. If the aarakocra is flying and dives at least 30 feet straight toward a target and then hits it with a melee weapon attack, the attack deals an extra 3 (1d6) damage to the target.

Echolocation. The hook horror can't use its blindsight while deafened.

Elemental Body. A creature that touches the azer or hits it with a melee attack while within 5 feet of it takes 5 (1d10) fire damage.

Enlarge (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, the duergar magically increases in size, along with anything it is wearing or carrying. While enlarged, the duergar is Large, doubles its damage dice on Strength-based weapon attacks (included in the attacks), and makes Strength checks and Strength saving throws with advantage. If the duergar lacks the room to become Large, it attains the maximum size possible in the space available.

Etherealness. The hag magically enters the Ethereal Plane from the Material Plane, or vice versa. To do so, the hag must have a heartstone in her possession.

False Appearance. While the gargoyle remains motionless, it is indistinguishable from an inanimate statue.

Fey Ancestry. The drow has advantage on saving throws against being charmed, and magic can't put the drow to sleep.

Fiendish Blessing. The AC of the cambion includes its Charisma bonus.

Flyby. The peryton doesn't provoke an opportunity attack when it flies out of an enemy's reach.

Frightful Presence. Each creature of the dragon's choice that is within 120 feet of the dragon and aware of it must succeed on a DC 19 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened for 1 minute. A creature can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a creature's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the creature is immune to the dragon's Frightful Presence for the next 24 hours.

Grappler. The mimic has advantage on attack rolls against any creature grappled by it.

Hold Breath. The lizardfolk can hold its breath for 15 minutes.

Horrifying Visage. Each non-undead creature within 60 feet of the banshee that can see her must succeed on a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be frightened for 1 minute. A frightened target can repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns, with disadvantage if the banshee is within line of sight, ending the effect on itself on a success. If a target's saving throw is successful or the effect ends for it, the target is immune to the banshee's Horrifying Visage for the next 24 hours.

Illumination. The flameskull sheds either dim light in a 15-foot radius, or bright light in a 15-foot radius and dim light for an additional 15 feet. It can switch between the options as an action.

Illusory Appearance. The hag covers herself and anything she is wearing or carrying with a magical illusion that makes her look like another creature of her general size and humanoid shape. The illusion ends if the hag takes a bonus action to end it or if she dies.
The changes wrought by this effect fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, the hag could appear to have smooth skin, but someone touching her would feel her rough flesh. Otherwise, a creature must take an action to visually inspect the illusion and succeed on a DC 20 Intelligence (Investigation) check to discern that the hag is disguised.

Immutable Form. The golem is immune to any spell or effect that would alter its form.

Incorporeal Movement. The ghost can move through other creatures and objects as if they were difficult terrain. It takes 5 (1d10) force damage if it ends its turn inside an object.

Innate Spellcasting. The djinni's innate spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 17, +9 to hit with spell attacks). It can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:

Inscrutable. The sphinx is immune to any effect that would sense its emotions or read its thoughts, as well as any divination spell that it refuses. Wisdom (Insight) checks made to ascertain the sphinx's intentions or sincerity have disadvantage.

Invisibility. The imp magically turns invisible until it attacks, or until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the imp wears or carries is invisible with it.

Keen Hearing and Smell. The hound has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.

Labyrinthine Recall. The minotaur can perfectly recall any path it has traveled.

Leadership (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). For 1 minute, the hobgoblin can utter a special command or warning whenever a nonhostile creature that it can see within 30 feet of it makes an attack roll or a saving throw. The creature can add a d4 to its roll provided it can hear and understand the hobgoblin. A creature can benefit from only one Leadership die at a time. This effect ends if the hobgoblin is incapacitated.

Legendary Resistance (3/Day). If the dragon fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.

Life Drain. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature. Hit: 5 (1d6 + 2) necrotic damage. The target must succeed on a DC 13 Constitution saving throw or its hit point maximum is reduced by an amount equal to the damage taken. This reduction lasts until the target finishes a long rest. The target dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0.
A humanoid slain by this attack rises 24 hours later as a zombie under the wight's control, unless the humanoid is restored to life or its body is destroyed. The wight can have no more than twelve zombies under its control at one time.

Light Sensitivity. While in bright light, the demon has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

Magic Resistance. The balor has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.

Magic Weapons. The balor's weapon attacks are magical.

Mimicry. The kenku can mimic any sounds it has heard, including voices. A creature that hears the sounds can tell they are imitations with a successful DC 14 Wisdom (Insight) check.

Nimble Escape. The goblin can take the Disengage or Hide action as a bonus action on each of its turns.

Otherworldly Perception. The kuo-toa can sense the presence of any creature within 30 feet of it that is invisible or on the Ethereal Plane. It can pinpoint such a creature that is moving.

Pack Tactics. The kobold has advantage on an attack roll against a creature if at least one of the kobold's allies is within 5 feet of the creature and the ally isn't incapacitated.

Parry. The hobgoblin adds 3 to its AC against one melee attack that would hit it. To do so, the hobgoblin must see the attacker and be wielding a melee weapon.

Possession (Recharge 6). One humanoid that the ghost can see within 5 feet of it must succeed on a DC 13 Charisma saving throw or be possessed by the ghost; the ghost then disappears, and the target is incapacitated and loses control of its body. The ghost now controls the body but doesn't deprive the target of awareness. The ghost can't be targeted by any attack, spell, or other effect, except ones that turn undead, and it retains its alignment, Intelligence, Wisdom, Charisma, and immunity to being charmed and frightened. It otherwise uses the possessed target's statistics, but doesn't gain access to the target's knowledge, class features, or proficiencies.
The possession lasts until the body drops to 0 hit points, the ghost ends it as a bonus action, or the ghost is turned or forced out by an effect like the dispel evil and good spell. When the possession ends, the ghost reappears in an unoccupied space within 5 feet of the body. The target is immune to this ghost's Possession for 24 hours after succeeding on the saving throw or after the possession ends.

Pounce. If the tiger moves at least 20 feet straight toward a creature and then hits it with a claw attack on the same turn, that target must succeed on a DC 13 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone. If the target is prone, the tiger can make one bite attack against it as a bonus action.

Psychic Defense. While the githzerai is wearing no armor and wielding no shield, its AC includes its Wisdom modifier.

Rampage. When the gnoll reduces a creature to 0 hit points with a melee attack on its turn, the gnoll can take a bonus action to move up to half its speed and make a bite attack.

Reactive. The marilith can take one reaction on every turn in combat.

Read Thoughts. The doppelganger magically reads the surface thoughts of one creature within 60 feet of it. The effect can penetrate barriers, but 3 feet of wood or dirt, 2 feet of stone, 2 inches of metal, or a thin sheet of lead blocks it. While the target is in range, the doppelganger can continue reading its thoughts, as long as the doppelganger's concentration isn't broken (as if concentrating on a spell). While reading the target's mind, the doppelganger has advantage on Wisdom (Insight) and Charisma (Deception, Intimidation, and Persuasion) checks against the target.

Reckless. At the start of its turn, the minotaur can gain advantage on all melee weapon attack rolls it makes during that turn, but attack rolls against it have advantage until the start of its next turn.

Redirect Attack. When a creature the goblin can see targets it with an attack, the goblin chooses another goblin within 5 feet of it. The two goblins swap places, and the chosen goblin becomes the target instead.

Reel. The roper pulls each creature grappled by it up to 25 feet straight toward it.

Regeneration. The troll regains 10 hit points at the start of its turn. If the troll takes acid or fire damage, this trait doesn't function at the start of the troll's next turn. The troll dies only if it starts its turn with 0 hit points and doesn't regenerate.

Rejuvenation. If it has a phylactery, a destroyed lich gains a new body in 1d10 days, regaining all its hit points and becoming active again. The new body appears within 5 feet of the phylactery.

Relentless (Recharges after a Short or Long Rest). If the wereboar takes 14 damage or less that would reduce it to 0 hit points, it is reduced to 1 hit point instead.

Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the demon can take the Hide action as a bonus action.

Shapechanger. The wererat can use its action to polymorph into a rat-humanoid hybrid or into a giant rat, or back into its true form, which is humanoid. Its statistics, other than its size, are the same in each form. Any equipment it is wearing or carrying isn't transformed. It reverts to its true form if it dies.

Siege Monster. The elemental deals double damage to objects and structures.

Slippery. The kuo-toa has advantage on ability checks and saving throws made to escape a grapple.

Spellcasting. The lich is an 18th-level spellcaster. Its spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 20, +12 to hit with spell attacks). The lich has the following wizard spells prepared:

Spider Climb. The ettercap can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.

Standing Leap. The bullywug's long jump is up to 20 feet and its high jump is up to 10 feet, with or without a running start.

Steadfast. The devil can't be frightened while it can see an allied creature within 30 feet of it.

Stench. Any creature other than a troglodyte that starts its turn within 5 feet of the troglodyte must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or be poisoned until the start of the creature's next turn. On a successful saving throw, the creature is immune to the stench of all troglodytes for 1 hour.

Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the kobold has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.

Superior Invisibility. As a bonus action, the dragon can magically turn invisible until its concentration ends (as if concentrating on a spell). Any equipment the dragon wears or carries is invisible with it.

Sure-Footed. The dao has advantage on Strength and Dexterity saving throws made against effects that would knock it prone.

Surprise Attack. If the bugbear surprises a creature and hits it with an attack during the first round of combat, the target takes an extra 7 (2d6) damage from the attack.

Swallow. The behir makes one bite attack against a Medium or smaller target it is grappling. If the attack hits, the target is also swallowed, and the grapple ends. While swallowed, the target is blinded and restrained, it has total cover against attacks and other effects outside the behir, and it takes 21 (6d6) acid damage at the start of each of the behir's turns. A behir can have only one creature swallowed at a time.
If the behir takes 30 damage or more on a single turn from the swallowed creature, the behir must succeed on a DC 14 Constitution saving throw at the end of that turn or regurgitate the creature, which falls prone in a space within 10 feet of the behir. If the behir dies, a swallowed creature is no longer restrained by it and can escape from the corpse by using 15 feet of movement, exiting prone.

Teleport. The balor magically teleports, along with any equipment it is wearing or carrying, up to 120 feet to an unoccupied space it can see.

Terrain Camouflage. The bullywug has advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in swampy terrain.

Tunneler. The umber hulk can burrow through solid rock at half its burrowing speed and leaves a 5 foot-wide, 8-foot-high tunnel in its wake.

Turn Immunity. The revenant is immune to effects that turn undead.

Turn Resistance. The lich has advantage on saving throws against any effect that turns undead.

Two Heads. The ettin has advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks and on saving throws against being blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, stunned, and knocked unconscious.

Undead Fortitude. If damage reduces the zombie to 0 hit points, it must make a Constitution saving throw with a DC of 5 + the damage taken, unless the damage is radiant or from a critical hit. On a success, the zombie drops to 1 hit point instead.

Web Sense. While in contact with a web, the spider knows the exact location of any other creature in contact with the same web.

Web Walker. The spider ignores movement restrictions caused by webbing.

Wounded Fury. While it has 10 hit points or fewer, the quaggoth has advantage on attack rolls. In addition, it deals an extra 7 (2d6) damage to any target it hits with a melee attack.


Creating NPCs from Scratch
p282
If you need completely new statistics for an NPC, you have two options:

You can create an NPC stat block (similar to the ones in the Monster Manual) as you would a monster stat block, as discussed in the previous section.
You can build the NPC as you would a player character, as discussed in the Player's Handbook.
If you decide to build an NPC the same way you build a player character, you can skip choosing a background and instead pick two skill proficiencies for the NPC.

The NPC Features table summarizes the ability modifiers and features of various nonhuman races, as well as various creatures from the Monster Manual with a challenge rating lower than 1. Apply these modifiers and add these features to the NPC's stat block, then determine the NPC's challenge rating just as you would for a monster. Features that can affect a monster's challenge rating are listed in the Monster Features table. The NPC's proficiency bonus is determined by its level, just like a character, rather than by its challenge rating.

If the monster you want to use isn't listed on the table, use the process described below under "Monsters with Classes."

NPC Features
Race	Ability Modifiers	Features
Aarakocra	+2 Dex, +2 Wis	Dive Attack: talon attack action, speed 20 ft., fly 50 ft., speaks Auran
Bullywug	-2 Int, -2 Cha	Amphibious, Speak with Frogs and Toads, Swamp Camouflage, Standing Leap: speed 20 ft., swim 40 ft.: speaks Bullywug
Dragonborn*	+2 Str, +1 Cha	Breath Weapon (use challenge rating instead of level to determine damage), Damage Resistance, Draconic Ancestry, speaks Common and Draconic
Drow*	+2 Dex, +1 Cha	Fey Ancestry, Innate Spellcasting feature of the drow, Sunlight Sensitivity, darkvision 120 ft., speaks Elvish and Undercommon
Dwarf*	+2 Str or Wis, +2 Con	Dwarven Resilience, Stonecunning, speed 25 ft., darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Dwarvish
Elf*	+2 Dex, +1 Int or Wis	Fey Ancestry, Trance, darkvision 60 ft., proficiency in the Perception skill, speaks Common and Elvish
Gnoll	+2 Str, -2 Int	Rampage, darkvision 60 ft.
Gnome*	+2 Int, +2 Dex or Con	Gnome Cunning, Small size: speed 25 ft., darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Gnomish
Gnome, deep	+1 Str, +2 Dex	Gnome Cunning, Innate Spellcasting, Stone Camouflage, Small size, speed 20 ft., darkvision 120 ft., speaks Gnomish, Terran, and Undercommon
Goblin	-2 Str, +2 Dex	Nimble Escape, Small size, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Goblin
Grimlock	+2 Str, -2 Cha	Blind Senses, Keen Hearing and Smell, Stone Camouflage, can't be blinded, blindsight 30 ft., or 10 ft. while deafened (blind beyond this radius), speaks Undercommon
Half-elf*	+1 Dex, +1 Int, +2 Cha	Fey Ancestry, darkvision 60 ft., proficiency in two skills, speaks Common and Elvish
Half-orc*	+2 Str, +1 Con	Relentless Endurance, darkvision 60 ft., proficiency in the Intimidation skill, speaks Common and Orc
Halfling*	+2 Dex, +1 Con or Cha	Brave, Halfling Nimbleness, Lucky, Small size, speed 25 ft., speaks Common and Halfling
Hobgoblin	None	Martial Advantage, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Goblin
Kenku	+2 Dex	Ambusher, Mimicry, understands Auran and Common but speaks only through the use of its Mimicry trait
Kobold	-4 Str, +2 Dex	Pack Tactics, Sunlight Sensitivity, Small size, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Draconic
Kuo-toa	None	Amphibious, Otherworldly Perception, Slippery, Sunlight Sensitivity, speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft., darkvision 120 ft., speaks Undercommon
Lizardfolk	+2 Str, -2 Int	Hold Breath (15 min.), +3 natural armor bonus to AC, speed 30 ft., swim 30 ft., speaks Draconic
Merfolk	None	Amphibious, speed 10 ft., swim 40 ft., speaks Aquan and Common
Orc	+2 Str, -2 Int	Aggressive, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Orc
Skeleton	+2 Dex, -4 Int, -4 Cha	Vulnerable to bludgeoning damage, immune to poison damage and exhaustion, can't be poisoned, darkvision 60 ft., can't speak but understands the languages it knew in life
Tiefling*	+1 Int, +2 Cha	Infernal Legacy (use challenge rating instead of level to determine spells), resistance to fire damage, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Common and Infernal
Troglodyte	+2 Str, +2 Con, -4 Int, -4 Cha	Chameleon Skin, Stench, Sunlight Sensitivity, +1 natural armor bonus to AC, darkvision 60 ft., speaks Troglodyte
Zombie	+1 Str, +2 Con, -6 Int, -4 Wis, -4 Cha	Undead Fortitude, immune to poison damage, can't be poisoned, darkvision 60 ft., can't speak but understands the languages it knew in life
* See the Player's Handbook for descriptions of this race's features, none of which alter the NPC's challenge rating.


Shadow Dragon Template
p84
Only a true dragon can transform into a shadow dragon, and only if it is born in the Shadowfell or remains there for several years. A dracolich can't be turned into a shadow dragon, since it loses its draconic nature when it becomes undead.

When a dragon becomes a shadow dragon, it retains its statistics except as described below. The shadow dragon might retain or lose any or all of its lair actions or inherit new ones, as the DM sees fit.

Damage Resistances. The dragon has resistance to necrotic damage.
Skill Proficiency: Stealth. The dragon's proficiency bonus is doubled for its Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Living Shadow. While in dim light or darkness, the dragon has resistance to damage that isn't force, psychic, or radiant.
Shadow Stealth. While in dim light or darkness, the dragon can take the Hide action as a bonus action.
Sunlight Sensitivity. While in sunlight, the dragon has disadvantage on attack rolls, as well as on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on sight.
New Action: Bite. If the dragon deals acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison damage with its bite, change that damage type to necrotic.
New Action: Shadow Breath. Any damage-dealing breath weapon possessed by the dragon deals necrotic damage instead of its original damage type. A humanoid reduced to 0 hit points by this damage dies, and an undead shadow rises from its corpse and acts immediately after the dragon in the initiative count. The shadow is under the dragon's control.
Half-Dragon Template
p180
A beast, humanoid, giant, or monstrosity can become a half-dragon. When a creature becomes a half-dragon, it retains all its statistics except as noted below.

Challenge. To avoid recalculating the creature's challenge rating, apply the template only to a creature that meets the optional prerequisite in the Breath Weapon table below. Otherwise, use the guidelines in the Dungeon Master's Guide to recalculate the rating after you apply the template.
Senses. The half-dragon gains blindsight with a radius of 10 feet and darkvision with a radius of 60 feet.
Resistances. The half-dragon gains resistance to a type of damage based on its color.
Color	Damage Resistance
Black or copper	Acid
Blue or bronze	Lightning
Brass, gold, or red	Fire
Green	Poison
Silver or white	Cold
Languages. The half-dragon speaks Draconic in addition to any other languages it knows.
New Action: Breath Weapon. The half-dragon has the breath weapon of its dragon half. The half-dragon's size determines how this action functions.
Size	Breath Weapon	Optional Prerequisite
Large or smaller	As a wyrmling	Challenge 2 or higher
Huge	As a young dragon	Challenge 7 or higher
Gargantuan	As an adult dragon	Challenge 8 or higher
Spore Servant Template
p230
A spore servant is any Large or smaller creature brought back to life by the animating spores of a myconid sovereign. A creature that was never flesh and blood to begin with (such as a construct, elemental, ooze, plant, or undead) can't be turned into a spore servant. The following characteristics change or are added to a creature that becomes a spore servant.

Retained Characteristics. The servant retains its Armor Class, hit points, Hit Dice, Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, vulnerabilities, resistances, and immunities.
Lost Characteristics. The servant loses its original saving throw and skill bonuses, special senses, and special traits. It loses any action that isn't Multiattack or a melee weapon attack that deals bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage. If it has an action or a melee weapon attack that deals some other type of damage, it loses the ability to deal damage of that type, unless the damage comes from a piece of equipment, such as a magic item.
Type. The servant's type is plant, and it loses any tags.
Alignment. The servant is unaligned.
Speed. Reduce all the servant's speeds by 10 feet, to a minimum of 5 feet.
Ability Scores. The servant's ability scores change as follows: Int 2 (−4), Wis 6 (−2), Cha 1 (−5).
Senses. The servant has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet, and it is blind beyond this radius.
Condition Immunities. The servant can't be blinded, charmed, frightened, or paralyzed.
Languages. The servant loses all known languages, but it responds to orders given to it by myconids using rapport spores. The servant gives highest priority to orders received from the most powerful myconid.
Attacks. If the servant has no other means of dealing damage, it can use its fists or limbs to make unarmed strikes. On a hit, an unarmed strike deals bludgeoning damage equal to 1d4 + the servant's Strength modifier, or, if the servant is Large, 2d4 + its Strength modifier.


Player Characters as Vampires
The game statistics of a player character transformed into a vampire spawn and then a vampire don't change, except that the character's Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution scores become 18 if they aren't higher. In addition, the character gains the vampire's damage resistances, darkvision, traits, and actions. Attack and damage rolls for the vampire's attacks are based on Strength.

The save DC for Charm is 8 + the vampire's proficiency bonus + the vampire's Charisma modifier. The character's alignment becomes lawful evil, and the DM might take control of the character until the vampirism is reversed with a wish spell or the character is killed and brought back to life.

Curse of Lycanthropy
A humanoid creature can be afflicted with the curse of lycanthropy after being wounded by a lycanthrope, or if one or both of its parents are lycanthropes. A remove curse spell can rid an afflicted lycanthrope of the curse, but a natural born lycanthrope can be freed of the curse only with a wish.

A lycanthrope can either resist its curse or embrace it. By resisting the curse, a lycanthrope retains its normal alignment and personality while in humanoid form. It lives its life as it always has, burying deep the bestial urges raging inside it. However, when the full moon rises, the curse becomes too strong to resist, transforming the individual into its beast form-or into a horrible hybrid form that combines animal and humanoid traits. When the moon wanes, the beast within can be controlled once again. Especially if the cursed creature is unaware of its condition, it might not remember the events of its transformation, though those memories often haunt a lycanthrope as bloody dreams.

Some individuals see little point in fighting the curse and accept what they are. With time and experience, they learn to master their shapechanging ability and can assume beast form or hybrid form at will. Most lycanthropes that embrace their bestial natures succumb to bloodlust, becoming evil, opportunistic creatures that prey on the weak.

Player Characters as Lycanthropes
A character who becomes a lycanthrope retains his or her statistics except as specified by lycanthrope type. The character gains the lycanthrope's speeds in non-humanoid form, damage immunities, traits, and actions that don't involve equipment. The character is proficient with the lycanthrope's natural attacks, such as its bite or claws, which deal damage as shown in the lycanthrope's statistics. The character can't speak while in animal form.

A non-lycanthrope humanoid hit by an attack that carries the curse of lycanthropy must succeed on a Constitution saving throw (DC 8 + the lycanthrope's proficiency bonus + the lycanthrope's Constitution modifier) or be cursed. If the character embraces the curse, his or her alignment becomes the one defined for the lycanthrope. The DM is free to decide that a change in alignment places the character under DM control until the curse of lycanthropy is removed.

The following information applies to specific lycanthropes.

Werebear. The character gains a Strength of 19 if his or her score isn't already higher, and a +1 bonus to AC while in bear or hybrid form (from natural armor). Attack and damage rolls for the natural weapons are based on Strength.
Wereboar. The character gains a Strength of 17 if his or her score isn't already higher, and a +1 bonus to AC while in boar or hybrid form (from natural armor). Attack and damage rolls for the tusks are based on Strength. For the Charge trait, the DC is 8 + the character's proficiency bonus + Strength modifier.
Wererat. The character gains a Dexterity of 15 if his or her score isn't already higher. Attack and damage rolls for the bite are based on whichever is higher of the character's Strength and Dexterity.
Weretiger. The character gains a Strength of 17 if his or her score isn't already higher. Attack and damage rolls for the natural weapons are based on Strength. For the Pounce trait, the DC is 8 + the character's proficiency bonus + Strength modifier.
Werewolf. The character gains a Strength of 15 if his or her score isn't already higher, and a +1 bonus to AC while in wolf or hybrid form (from natural armor). Attack and damage rolls for the natural weapons are based on Strength.


